Sec 55
Faridabad, Haryana-121004
+91-8010645624, +91-8750084750
Premendra.bce05515@gmail.com, Premendra.bce05515@outlook.com


Experience

Senior Software engineer , Indiabulls security Ltd (formerly Indiabulls ventures ltd)
Sep 2019 to Present
Current major responsibility for Development in “ShubhWeb” application. Technologies used are Java/J2EE, Spring Boot,Spring Batch,Spring REST, Hibernate, Oracle 12g, ReactJS, BootStrap.

Notis API , KRA, SFTP projects. These are Inhouse applications.
Added code for new requirements.
Fixed bugs identified by support team
Migrated code from SVN to GITLab Server (Hosted in company premises) , 
Worked with the vendor and project management team on a code change and new fix in upcoming Release. This resulted in increased efficiency in batch processing with no errors or transmissions missed and thus reduced the number of incidents.
Did Jenkins configuration for continuous deployment

assistant Manager , It applications, concentrix
Nov 2017 to Sep 2019
Current major responsibility for Development in “Global Incentive Program(GIP)” application. Technologies used are Java/J2EE, Spring Boot, Hibernate, MySQL, AngularJS, BootStrap.

Gain Manager and Resolve Jiffy. (Worked as L2/L3 support Engineer with software development Team). These are Inhouse applications.
Provided L2/L3 level support to GM and RJ application.
Updated and create incident management tickets in the ticket tracking application
Identified defects within GM and RJ application, 
Worked with the vendor and project management team on a code change and new fix in upcoming Release. This resulted in increased efficiency in batch processing with no errors or transmissions missed and thus reduced the number of incidents.
Create, monitor and update defects in Jira
Wrote and executed SQL queries for reporting and research purposes.
Provided support for the successful deployment of multiple iterations of the GM and RJ application


Senior Software Engineer, Accenture 
Mar 2017 to July 2017
Working on Data Migration project with Talend tool and java API (Spring Batch, multithreading) for project ZVR4.
Worked to write java code to parallel process the blob data of table of legacy database and save to target database. 


Assistant Manager, Concentrix india
Jan 2015 to Mar 2017
Worked as L2/L3 support Engineer with the software development Team of Zetta application using Java, J2ee, AngularJS, REST, and Hibernate. The application is hosted on AWS cloud and uses various AWS cloud services.
Worked as DevOps engineer to configure Zetta application environments on AWS cloud using Jenkins, JIRA, AWS, BitBucket, Chef scripts. In short DevOps is a process to achieve continuous delivery via automated testing, continuous integration and continuous deployment.
Provided L2/L3 level support to Zetta application.
Updated and create incident management tickets in the ticket tracking application
Identified defects within Zetta application, 
Worked with the vendor and project management team on a code change and new fix in upcoming Release. This resulted in increased efficiency in batch processing with no errors or transmissions missed and thus reduced the number of incidents.
Create, monitor and update defects in Jira
Installed applications in AWS environment using Jenkins, and AWS Cloudformation
Wrote and executed SQL queries for reporting and research purposes.
Provided support for the successful deployment of multiple iterations of the Zetta application

software developer (L2/L3), concentrix India (Payroll COMPANY: WDC)
Jan 2014 to Dec 2014
Worked as L2/L3 support Engineer contractual employee from WDC, deployed in Concentrix India.
Worked with the software development team of WebDOTS 4.1, QAA using Java, J2EE, Hibernate, JSF, and Struts2. This application runs on IBM WebSphere 8.
Provided L2/L3 level support to WebDOTS 4.1, QAA application.
Updated and create incident management tickets in the ticket tracking application
Identified defects within WebDOTS 4.1, QAA application, 
Worked with the vendor and project management team on a code change and new fix in upcoming Release. This resulted in increased efficiency in batch processing with no errors or transmissions missed and thus reduced the number of incidents.
Communicated to users via mail, tickets and discussed with the implementation team for defects logged by users.
Wrote and executed SQL queries for reporting and research purposes.
Provided support for the successful deployment of multiple iterations of the WebDOTS 4.1, QAA application.


Application developer, Novelvox Software India Pvt Ltd
May 2012 to Dec 2013
Company was previously known as Integration Services & Technologies India PVT LTD
Worked with the Software development team for iAgent web application. 
worked on development of service generation module
worked on development of  service invocation module 
created views using using Flex4, CSS, JavaScript
Technologies used:-
 Java, J2ee, JDBC, Apache Solr, Hibernate, for backend service development
 Adobe Flex 4.1, CSS, JavaScript for view code generation
The application deployed on Apache Tomcat.


software developer, HCL Infosystems Ltd
March 2011 to May 2012
Worked as contractual employee from HCL Infosystems LTD, deployed in NIC
Worked with the Software development team for CIPA (Common Integrated Police Application), up gradation as CIPRUS for state specific requirements.
The Common Integrated Police Application (CIPA) is a multilingual application to automate the processes (workflow) at primary sources of data itself e.g. Police Station and to build a crime & criminal Information system based on CrPC. It provides an efficient way of organizing crime records for generating queries/reports and crime analysis for decision support.
 The CIPA Software developed in JAVA, Swings, JDBC and implemented under open source environment viz. Linux (OS), PostgreSQL (RDBMS).

Software Developer, GreenApple WebWare
Sept 2009 to Feb 2011
Worked with software development Team for Online Shopping Cart Application using java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Apache tomcat 5, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX

Education
BCE Bhagalpur, Bhagalpur, Bihar
B. Tech in Computer Science & Engineering (2005-2009) with 72.31% aggregate from Bihar’s renowned Government institution 
Munshi singh college, Motihari, bihar
Intermediate in Science(Mathematics)From B.I.E.C. Patna, in 2004
Gopal sah vidyalaya, motihari, bihar
Matriculation from B.S.E.B. Patna, in 2002

VOCATIONAL TRAINING
From B.S.N.L BHAGALPUR on training subject E-10B, OCB (TAX), & MOBILE COMMUNICATION (AN OVERVIEW OF GSM TECHNOLOGY)

Leadership
Worked with different team within organization for different purposes like 
establishing VPC connections, 
deployment of application.
Requirement clarification/understanding from users along with BA and Project Lead. 

References
On Basis of Request